restaurant workers have always been
there for us they've worked long hours
they've worked late nights they've
worked all days away from their families
all to make sure that we're happy and
fed now it's time to repay the favor
because of the kovat 19 pandemic
millions of restaurant workers have
either lost their jobs or had their
hours drastically cut and his dining
rooms across the country shudder takeout
and delivery of the last remaining
lifelines from many beloved restaurants
so here's our challenge to you yes you
the one in front of a screen with the
hair and the shirt lucky bastard if you
can afford it order more food than you
can eat in one meal from your favorite
restaurant but those leftovers in the
fridge and make the most creative dish
possible with them the next day
take a picture post it to social media
with hashtag leftovers challenge and
urge your followers to do the same we've
all gathered together to cook with
leftovers from our favorite restaurants
to give you a few ideas and click that
donate button to give directly to the
restaurant workers Community Foundation
your money will go towards direct worker
relief nonprofits supporting the
restaurant industry and zero interest
loans for restaurants to start back up
again why are we still here
let's give something yeah alright so for
my entrant into beef leftovers challenge
I submit to you fried chicken
but not just any fried chicken really
really good fried chicken from the
Beatrice in which look it even came with
a note from head chef and owner Angie
Mar that's really nice and it also comes
with Beatrice ins justifiably famous
spicy vinegary honey a concoction I
would eat by the spoonful if no one was
looking up would you look at that I went
who did it anyway
we will definitely be putting that's a
good use later if I don't eat the whole
thing first for now all three recipes
today are gonna require a separation of
skin and meat from chicken bones so I'm
gonna go ahead and rather graphically
disassemble all this dark meat chicken
which is gonna work better for our
applications now I'm positive that
there's something you could do with
these bones make fried chicken bone
stock but I'm gonna leave that one up to
you guys to figure out now we're gonna
go ahead and chop up our dark meat
chicken into much more manageable
bite-sized pieces which is gonna help
make them more bite-sized the crispy
skin however I'm gonna mince into much
finer pieces almost like chicken skin
breadcrumbs because we're primarily
using these to add flavor or to use as a
garnish alright now that we're all
prepped let's get into our first dish
fried chicken mac and cheese we're to
start by grating about four and half
of white American cheese before you roll
your eyes this is just to use as the
sauce base because it's full of
stabilizers and emulsifiers for the
flavorful side of things I'm going with
pepperjack but you could use things like
sharp cheddar Gouda Muenster now over on
the stovetop named medium saucepan we
are combining one-and-a-half cups each
water and milk bring that to a boil and
dumping in 8 ounces of our pasta of
choice in this ingenious method from
America's Test Kitchen just stir it
every so often for six to eight minutes
until it's about one minute shy of very
al dente at this point we're gonna
reduce the heat to medium-low and add
some flavoring components one heaping
teaspoon of Dijon mustard a little shake
of cayenne pepper you are after all the
Jordan clever of your cayenne pepper
stay my territory whoa sorry chef Jon
I'll stick with my good old-fashioned
kosher salt and freshly ground pepper
and at this point we're also gonna add
our chopped up dark meat chicken as well
as the shredded American cheese this way
the chicken can heat through and the
cheese can melt while we continue to
cook everything together for an
additional minute
adjust the flame as necessary and once
the pasta is cooked we're going to kill
the flame entirely and add our more
flavorful cheese but then just mixing
that in to combine until it's evenly
distributed and then we're covering
preferably with a pot lid but sometimes
you got to improvise and letting this
sit off heat for about five minutes
during which time we're gonna toast up
some of our chicken skin garnish in a
little bit of oil in a non-stick pan
also gonna have a handful of panko
breadcrumbs these are gonna soak up any
of the extra chicken fat and bring even
more crisp to the party once we've got
our chicken skin topping out of the way
it's time to take a look at what we have
created the gooiest these stretchy is
the easiest mac and cheese as yet
discovered in this timeline I think it
could be a little gooey so I'm gonna add
a little bit more pepper jack cheese
stir it up until melted there we go
taste for seasoning and Bob's your uncle
at this point you could totally serve it
up just like this
throw some in a bowl top it with I don't
know a healthy grating of parmesan and
some of our chicken skin bread crumb
topping and already you're looking at a
pretty fabulous use for leftover fried
chicken but if you really want to blow
your pants off pile some of this mac and
cheese and some boilers safe serving
ware topped with some chicken skin and a
healthy grating of even more cheese
throw it under a preheated broiler for
four to five minutes until browned and
bubbly and crisp and that's it folks I
think we've gone full guy fieri crossed
my tips and upside down backwards my
uglies because I've got a one-way ticket
to flavortown anyway I think we'd
knocked this one out of the park on to
recipe number two right after this
commercial break I'm sure you've heard
of fried chicken and waffles but have
you heard of fried chicken in waffles
into a small bowl we are combining one
cup of all-purpose flour teaspoon and a
half of kosher salt and one teaspoon of
baking soda tiny was to combine get a
bigger bowl and dump 1 cup of buttermilk
into it followed by three tablespoons of
melted butter and 1 large egg tiny whisk
to combine and whoops I almost forgot
we're gonna add an optional tablespoon
of coarsely ground cornmeal to our dry
ingredients not only is this gonna make
our waffles a little more crispy it's
gonna play real nice with those fried
chicken flavors we're gently folding
together the wet and dry ingredients and
once mostly combined we're gonna add our
chicken I'm gonna start by chopping the
chicken into even smaller bite-sized
pieces
maybe bed Saturno cup and a half's worth
as well as about 1/4 cup of our chicken
skin and maybe two ounces of grated
Parmesan go ahead and mix that until
everybody's gotten to know each other
and then let it sit at room temperature
for about 10 minutes so the flour can
completely hydrate then as lovers so
often do we are thoroughly greasing both
plates of our Belgian waffle maker
preheating until preheated and then
dumping 3/4 of a cup of waffle batter
into the center closing flipping and
depending on your waffle irons
manufacturer cooking for about 5 minutes
or until your waffle has reached a
golden-brown state of completion
as you can see three-quarters of a cup
of batter wasn't quite enough but we're
still gonna treat this waffle with all
the dignity and respect it deserves
keeping it warm on a wire rack in a low
oven while we make a few more waffles
with a little more batter there we go
that's the sauce while the waffles are
finishing cooking we're gonna make a
quick maple whipped cream combining one
cup of heavy cream with two tablespoons
of maple syrup and maybe a teaspoon of
vanilla extract or vanilla paste
taani whisk to a state of homogeneity
taste for tastiness and then it's time
to whip you could whip this with a hand
or stand mixer but I'm going to use a
whip cream siphon give it a few shakes
and pile an unrestrained amount on
of your tall stack of waffles last but
certainly not least a generous drizzle
of our spicy honey oh my god this is
definitely
instagram-worthy but how does it taste
well I'll tell you it tastes just like
fried chicken and waffles with maple
whipped cream and spicy honey so you
know awesome but does it earn the babish
fork shake of excellence yes it does and
while it deserves to be a member at the
clean plate club I'm trying not to die
so I'll give the rest to Jess the last
recipe I decided to just kind of wing it
so to speak you'll see into a food
processor goes about two cups of chicken
along with a half cup of chicken skin
processed until it's about as ground as
you can get it and then we're gonna
treat it sort of like a meatball mixing
together some binding and flavoring
agents 1/2 cup buttermilk 1 large egg a
little grated red onion a little grated
garlic and maybe 1/3 of a cup of Frank's
redhot because as I'm sure it now makes
sense I'm winging it beat that together
with a fork and dump it into our ground
chicken mixture along with about a half
a cup of breadcrumbs to really help bind
everything together done some gloves and
get to mixin we don't want it too wet we
don't want it to dry think again
meatball style because that's pretty
much what we're gonna make we're gonna
start forming these guys into patties
into which we are going to deposit a few
crumbles of blue cheese which
subsequently we are going to encase in
the meats creating as you may have now
deduced a blue cheese stuffed buffalo
chicken meatball but we aren't done yet
first we have to rinse and repeat with
our remaining meats and cheese and then
we must prepare a three-stage breading
station into Bowl one goes from
all-purpose flour into bowl two goes to
cracked and beaten eggs and into Bowl
three goes the rest of my panko
breadcrumbs as you can see we are
employing the wet hand dry hand
technique using my left hand to touch
dry stuff and my right hand to touch wet
stuff this prevents breading from
accumulating on one's fingers repeat
with all the remaining balls and then
last but not least you guessed it these
guys are getting deep-fried let's grab
our spheres and head on over to the
stove top don't need that where we've
got one quart of vegetable oil heated to
350 degrees Fahrenheit into which we are
going to gently dip our spheres flipping
frequently and frying for about seven
minutes until golden brown and crisp
draining on a wire rack and keeping
everybody warm in a low
and while we construct a rudimentary
buffalo sauce just equal parts butter
and Frank's redhot Western New York's
greatest contribution to society since
ever whisk to combine and that I've
decided to plate it up all fancy-like
three pools of sauce on to which we're
going to plop our spheres and then
what's a garnish with what are we
missing here ooh
celery perhaps just the daintiest leaf
of celery greens for garnish and there
you have it some over fancified cheese
stuffed buffalo chicken balls but how do
they taste well as you can see they're
only receiving a tenuous fork shake of
excellence and that's because the
chicken was predictably a little bit dry
but they're still really good and now
last but not least maybe the most
practical advice I'm going to give you
all day how to just straight-up reheat
Fried Chicken get some vegetable oil up
to 325 degrees Fahrenheit and drop it in
if your chicken is already pretty dark
like this stuff is only fry for one to
two minutes until the skin gets a little
crispy then finish warming up in a 350
degree oven and it'll be like brand-new
Fried Chicken but who are we kidding
you're gonna make the waffles those
things were awesome
[Music]